Top Reasons to Build Your Next Application Using Angular (#224)
ippontech/blog-usa: posts/reasons-to-build-our-application-using-angular.md

While I was researching, why I need to learn Angular, I found out the following answers. I thought of sharing with you all!!
Lets start to look why we need to have Angular in our next application.

<h3>Angular is a full-fledged framework :</h3>

   Out of the box, Angular has everything we need to build a business-level web application without the need for additional libraries.

<h3>Modularity :</h3>

Angular implements MVC by asking you to split your app into MVC components, then just let Angular do the rest. Angular manages your components for you and also serves as the pipeline that connects them.

<h3>Data Binding :</h3>

Data binding is a technique, where the data stays in sync between the component and the view. Whenever the user updates the data in the view, Angular updates the component. When the component gets new data, the Angular updates the view.

![two-way-binding](/images/2022/10/two-way-binding.png)

<h3>PWA and SPA :</h3>

Angular Progressive Web Application (PWA) is a cost-friendly solution that allows websites to act like mobile apps. It reduces dependency on the network which significantly improves the user experience of the website.

> Caching in PWA works capably and conserves bandwidth whenever possible. This minimizes the risks of serving outdated content. 

Reviewer: Consider explaining how does the module caching minimizes outdated content?

<h3>TypeScript makes the development process simple :</h3>

![tsimage](/images/2022/10/tsimage.png)

TypeScript was developed by Microsoft and it is a typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to JavaScript. TypeScript helps editors (like VSCode) with autocompletion. Its transpiler helps with debugging, and its use of types and interfaces helps with improved code quality.

You can also directly debug TypeScript code in the browser or an editor if you have proper map files created during build time. This language ensures improved navigation, refactoring, and auto completion services. 

<h3>Router :</h3>

Angular Router takes care of the duties of a JavaScript router. It activates all required Angular components to compose a page when a user navigates to a certain URL. It lets users navigate from one page to another without page reload. It updates the browser’s history so the user can use the back and forward buttons when navigating back and forth between pages.

<h3>Declarative UI :</h3>

Angular uses HTML to define the UI of the application. HTML is a declarative and intuitive language with directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-repeat, and forms control.

> With its help, you don’t need to invest time in program flows and deciding what loads first. Simply define what you require and Angular will take care of it.

Reviewer: Consider reworking maybe "With these controls, " structure or format.

<h3>Directives :</h3>

Directives are classes that add new behavior or modify the existing behavior to the elements in the template.
Basically directives are used to manipulate the Document Object Model (DOM), for example adding/removing the element from DOM or changing the appearance of the DOM elements.

You can give the following condition in your html tags:

``` Typescript

<div *ngIf="'hello'=='helloo'">
  <h1> hello world </h1>
</div>

``` 

You can render your DOM using loops
``` Typescript

> <div *ngFor="let item of demo">

Reviewer: Consider showing what demo is defined as

---
authors:
- Anne Rosary 
tags:
- Angular
date: 2022-10-17T12:21:50.000Z
title: "Top Reasons to Build Your Next Application Using Angular"
image: 
---
![angular](/images/2022/10/angular.png)

While I was researching, why I need to learn Angular, I found out the following answers. I thought of sharing with you all!!
Lets start to look why we need to have Angular in our next application.

<h3>Angular is a full-fledged framework :</h3>

   Out of the box, Angular has everything we need to build a business-level web application without the need for additional libraries.

<h3>Modularity :</h3>

Angular implements MVC by asking you to split your app into MVC components, then just let Angular do the rest. Angular manages your components for you and also serves as the pipeline that connects them.

<h3>Data Binding :</h3>

> In Angular, this is the coolest concept with two-way binding and we would like to introduce it as an eye candy feature. Using NgModel you can change the data in both way template to class or class to template.

Reviewer 2: The wording here is a bit confusing.

![two-way-binding](/images/2022/10/two-way-binding.png)

<h3>PWA and SPA :</h3>

Angular Progressive Web Application (PWA) is a cost-friendly solution that allows websites to act like mobile apps. It reduces dependency on the network which significantly improves the user experience of the website.

Caching in PWA works capably and conserves bandwidth whenever possible. This minimizes the risks of serving outdated content. 

> Angular also facilitates the development of Single Page Applications (SPA) which provides server side rendering capabilities that boost SEO(Search engine optimization) rankings. A single page application is a website or web application that dynamically rewrites a current web page with new data from the web server, instead of the default method of a web browser loading entire new pages. It also helps load the first page quickly and improve website performance on mobile and low-powered devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Angular also facilitates the development of Single Page Applications (SPA) which provides server side rendering capabilities that boost SEO(Search engine optimization) rankings. A single page application is a website or web application that dynamically rewrites a current web page with new data from the web server, instead of the default method of a web browser loading entire new pages. It also helps load the first page quickly and improves website performance on mobile and low-powered devices.
```

Author: Changed it

<h3>TypeScript makes the development process simple :</h3>

![tsimage](/images/2022/10/tsimage.png)

TypeScript was developed by Microsoft and it is a typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to JavaScript. TypeScript helps editors (like VSCode) with autocompletion. Its transpiler helps with debugging, and its use of types and interfaces helps with improved code quality.

You can also directly debug TypeScript code in the browser or an editor if you have proper map files created during build time. This language ensures improved navigation, refactoring, and auto completion services. 

<h3>Router :</h3>

Angular Router takes care of the duties of a JavaScript router.

>  It activates all required Angular components to compose a page when a user navigates to a certain URL.It lets users navigate from one page to another without page reload.It updates the browser’s history so the user can use the back and forward buttons when navigating back and forth between pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It activates all required Angular components to compose a page when a user navigates to a certain URL. It lets users navigate from one page to another without page reload. It updates the browser’s history so the user can use the back and forward buttons when navigating back and forth between pages.
```

Author: Changed it

<h3>Declarative UI :</h3>

Angular uses HTML to define the UI of the application. HTML is a declarative and intuitive language with directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-repeat, and forms control.
With its help, you don’t need to invest time in program flows and deciding what loads first. Simply define what you require and Angular will take care of it.

<h3>Directives :</h3>

Directives are classes that add new behavior or modify the existing behavior to the elements in the template.

> Basically directives are used to manipulate the DOM, for example adding/removing the element from DOM or changing the appearance of the DOM elements.

Reviewer 2: Make sure to define DOM (either inline with the first use of the acronym or at sometime before it's first use).

Author: Changed it.

You can give the following condition in your html tags:

``` Typescript

<div *ngIf="'hello'=='helloo'">
  <h1> hello world </h1>
</div>

``` 

You can render your DOM using loops
``` Typescript

<div *ngFor="let item of demo">
  {{item}}
</div>

``` 

<h3>POJOs :</h3>

 In Angular, you don’t need any additional getter and setter functions. This is because every object that Angular uses is POJO (Plain Old JavaScript Object) which enables object manipulation by providing all the conventional JavaScript functionalities. 

<h3>Security :</h3> 

> For Security purpose, Angular has several built-in protections for things such as cross-site scripting attacks and sanitization.

Reviewer 2: Consider rewording... This says "angular protects against sanatization".  Maybe say "Angular has several built-in protections for things such as cross-site scripting attacks and cross origin resource sharing. 
 It also protects against remote code execution through the use of sanitization."

Author: Modified it.

<h3>Supported by Google :</h3>

> One of the significanth advantages of Angular is that it is supported by Google. Google offers its Long-Term Support (LTS) to Angular that sheds light on Google’s plan to stick with the framework and further scale the Angular ecosystem. Google apps also use Angular and their team is quite optimistic about its stability. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the significant advantages of Angular is that it is supported by Google. Google offers its Long-Term Support (LTS) to Angular that sheds light on Google’s plan to stick with the framework and further scale the Angular ecosystem. Google apps also use Angular and their team is quite optimistic about its stability. 
```

<h3>Services :</h3>

> You can write your business logic in single time and access it all over in application it is also coolest feature of Angular.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can write your business logic a single time and access it all over the application, another really cool feature of Angular.
```

<h3>Testing :</h3> 

Being independent of each other, the components make unit testing much easier. You don't need to include additional libraries for unit testing. 

<h3>Less Coding :</h3>

Coders need to spend less time in coding process as Angular requires less coding. Without a doubt it is a great deal for developers.

> Listed below are some other highly rated factors that make Angular a preferred framework among developers(I got it from Google).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Listed below are some other highly rated factors that make Angular a preferred framework among developers (I got it from Google).
```
